Gideon Levy he's a columnist at haret he
joins us now from Tel Aviv Gideon where
is public opinion on a potential second
ceasefire or or some kind of captive
deal Israel is public opinion is almost
totally recruited in support for
continuing the
war no matter what but in the same time
there is this public desire to see the
hostages coming back and therefore or a
pause will be accepted by everyone but
only a pause I don't see Israelis being
ready to stop this war unfortunately so
Gideon we heard strong words from
Netanyahu today on how this war will be
continuing how does that compared to
what president Herzog has been
saying it's not the first time that the
two are different in their views but
finally I think also president Herzog is
not in favor of stopping the war for
now as long as the Americans are giving
Israel a green light and they are giving
Israel a green light to continue Israel
will
continue no matter how many victims are
in Gaza no matter how many children are
killed in Gaza and even no matter how
many Israeli soldiers are killed you
mentioned the us giving a green light so
let me ask you then would a un Security
Council resolution if one does get
passed would that make any difference
first of all I want to see the United
States not putting a vetto again and
most probably they will put another
vetto and then it's
irrelevant Israel will ignore any any
resolution of the International
Community as long as Israel will be able
to do so in order to achieve the goals
that Israel wants to achieve which are
very vague goals I must say and I think
that at least part of them are
unachievable Gideon just in terms of
what's happening at the security Council
if they do manage to through all of
these delays and all the diplomacy
that's going on right now behind closed
doors if they do manage to find some
language to agree on and the US doesn't
veto a resolution and there is a vote
and and a resolution is passed what are
the chances that Israel actually abides
by that resolution and implements what
it
requires if the resolution will not be
accompanied
with
sanctions then I think Israel will
continue with the war as long there that
the Americans will not put some concrete
measures actions on Israel which will
which might change Israel's mind but as
long as it will be only declarations
condemnations Israel
ignored many resolutions of the
International Community in the in the
past including resolutions by by the
security
Council Gideon we've been hearing a lot
about about the pressure that's been
mounting in Israel particularly on
Benjamin Netanyahu I've been wondering
how profound the pressure is right now
from the families of captives he's been
meeting with them this
week yeah it's a growing pressure but I
must tell you that I'm surprised to see
less
public protest I was expect ing after
the killing of the three hostages by
Israeli soldiers I was expecting to
see tents of thousands of Israelis
streaming to the streets with some kind
of a protest on Saturday evening for
example this did not happen I mean there
was a protest but in much smaller
scale and I'm afraid that except of the
families obviously the families are
totally recruited to fight
to to get their beloved ones back that's
goes without saying but I'm very afraid
that Israeli public opinion becomes a
little bit
apathetic not totally obviously still
everyone wants to see them home but I
don't see a major protest for really
putting an end to the war because this
might be the only way to bring all of
them back home Gideon perhaps not a
protest to bring an end to the war but
but I wonder if if there's been any kind
of shift in understanding how Israel is
Prosecuting this war we've spoken about
it on on air before about how Israeli
media reporting can be markedly
different from from perhaps what you
seeing on our screens and I'm wondering
if knowing that that people who are
waving White Flags Israelis who are
holding White flags that they were shot
has that changed any kind of views about
how this war has been
conducted
I wish but totally not Israeli see it as
an accident as a very serious accident
but they don't see the meaning of it and
the meaning of it is that Israel Israel
is killing
systematically innocent people
deliberately including those who have
white flags in their hands unfortunately
very unfortunately three of them were
Israelis but but this just shows the way
that the Army is operating in Gaza and
many times also in the West Bank by the
way so the killing of innocent people
continues and will
continue and unfortunately Israelis
don't draw the conclusions out of all
those incidents there's always an
explanation and
justification and and and disbelief that
those are exceptional cases and it will
never happen again and it's again the
the rules of the army the the directions
of the army it's not so but Israel is
many times living
Deni kidan Levy there a columnist at
haret speaking to us from Tel Aviv
thanks for joining in joining us Gideon
it was really great to get your
thoughts thank you for having me